+++
title = '2.4 Frequncy, Volume, and Progression'
date = 2025-12-14T21:33:38+05:30
draft = true
+++

## Getting stronger at the Basics
Once proper technique is learnt, focus on progressive overload. This is what'll allow you to build muscle now, the previous step was a foundation or a precursor to this.  

But before I tell you the progression I recommend, you should first know what progressive overload actually mean.  
Progressive Overload means you either increase the reps and sets at the same weight, or you increase the weight. In the long run, your weights increase.  
If you don't progressively overload, you simply won't keep growing as the muscles need more stimulus to grow more.  

#### The Method of Unlimited Hypertrophy
Also known as *Double Progression*.  

{{< youtube "1TKqwXCge9E" "Renaissance Periodization - Reverse Pec Deck" >}}

The summary is that, you decide a rep range and a set range, and first session you do the least amount of reps and sets in the range.
The next time you come, you're reps will increase, and you increase the set only if you feel like you can perform it for at least more than lower end of the rep range.  
You'll repeat this every session, till you reach a volume peak of doing max amount of sets, with the first set having max rep, and last one having at least min rep.  
All the sets should be done close to muscular failure.  

Example, take skull crushers 5-10 reps 2-4 sets.  
When I am at a new weight, I pick it such that I can fail in 5-10 rep range. In the first session, let's say I do 6,5 (two sets, first of 6 second 5), I know doing if I do one more set I won't be able to do 5+ reps, so I stop. Next time I do the same movement, let's say I could do 7,6 in first two, then I'll probably also do a third one, let's say of 5, ie 7,6,5 for the day. Next time it could be 8,6,5 so on and so forth.  
I'll keep increasing the reps and sets in such manner, till i reach 10 reps in the first set with at least 5 reps in the fourth one. Once this is accomplished, I increase the weight and start with the lower volume all over again.  
