---
title: "1.2 Terminology"
description: More sophisticated jargon
date: 2025-02-01T14:35:02+05:30
image: "/imgs/deadlift.webp"
icons: ph-x
layout: "workout-sections/single"
---
Techincal but common words gym goers use.  
## Hypertrophy
A fancy word for muscle bulding.  

## Compound Movement
Any lift that involves two or more joints. Typically accompanied with two or more muscle groups being involved. Example, dips (chest, tricep, and front delt).

## Isolation Movement 
Only one joint is involved in the movement, usually accompanied with just one muscle. Example, tricep pushdown (tricep)

## Progressive Overload
Increase in weights over time, to get the same stimulus for growth.  

## Hip-Hinges
A deadlift kind of movement, where the lower back is arched and the hip acts like a hinge, hence the name hip-hinge.  

{{< youtube id=CN_7cz3P-1U class=video >}}

## Musculature
A system of muscles that one uses to perform a particular type of movement. Example, the pushing musculature implies the chest, tricep, and the front delt working in harmony.  

## Volume
Number of sets per week of a particular muscle group. Example, 8 sets of chest per week.  

## Intensity
Essentially how close to failure or "heavy" the set was.  

## Failure
In context of muscular failure. It means to physically not be able to perform more reps because your muscle itself (and not the technique or the stablizing muscles) has fatigued, or reached failure.  

## Beyond Failure
Training even after muscular failure. Either using myo-reps or dropsets.  
