---
title: "1.3 Why Workout?"
description: What is your why
date: 2025-02-01T14:35:02+05:30
image: "/imgs/deadlift.webp"
icons: ph-x
layout: "workout-sections/single"
---

Before we even begin to dive into the article, we gotta ask ourselves  
## Why should we even workout to begin with?  
Here are a few generic but solid reasons why you could consider working out.  

You'll feel stronger and more capable and empowered  
You'll age slower  
You'll think better  
Not to mention you will also become more attractive  
And it is an indication that you're a dedicated and commited person  

## But is that it?
These are good enough reasons to workout to begin with, but there'll be times where you don't wanna go or just think why push to be better when you're already good.  

Hence, you've got to have a solid personal reason. It is fine if you don't have one when you begin to workout, we all start coming just out of curiosity, but in the long run, when times get tough, this is what'll separate the greats from the goods.  

> He who has a why can bear almost any how.  
~ Neitsche

I am not gonna tell what your reason could be. It has to be personal and has to be weird and childish, the kind people laugh at when you tell them.  
For example, for me, one of the biggest motivators of not giving in is because that is what my younger self would have wanted, to have a physique sculpted by gods themselves. And that I want to become someone kids get inspired to become.  
<!--to work on things i truly care about-->

No amount heartbreak or hatred for oneself or others can give you the drive comparable to something as personal as your *why*.  

All that being said, it is sometimes important to just fucking do it without any reasons, just because it is good for you. It'll save you a lot of time when you don't really have a solid reason to be consistent, but still make progress to crescendo into your reason when you find one.  

## Ending thoughts
We all begin comming to the gym in the hopes of impressing the girl that we like, but this is far more than that.  
Going consistently to the gym is a testament of your discipline, dedication and commitment to improving yourself and making yourself better, which is way more deserving of respect and applause than doing it to show off to others.  
